A. Design a survey form for a given case study, collect the primary data and analyse it
Case 1:
A researcher wants to conduct a Survey in colleges on Use of ICT in higher education
from Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai. The survey focuses on access to and use of ICT
in teaching and learning, as well as on attitudes towards the use of ICT in teaching and
learning.
Design questionnaire addressed to teachers seeks information about the target class, his
experience using ICT for teaching, access to ICT infrastructure, support available, ICT
based activities and material used, obstacles to the use of ICT in teaching, learning
activities with the target class, your skills and attitudes to ICT, and some personal
background information.
Arrange question in following groups:
1. Information about the target class you teach
2. Experience with ICT for teaching
3. ICT access for teaching
4. Support to teachers for ICT use
5. ICT based activities and material used for teaching
6. Obstacles to using ICT in teaching and learning
7. Learning activities with the target class
8. Teacher skills
9. Teacher opinions and attitudes
10. Personal background information
Case 2:
A research agency wants to study the perception about App based taxi service in
Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai. The survey focuses on customers attitude towards
app base taxi service as well as on attitudes towards regular taxi cab.
Design questionnaire seeks information about the target taxi service, his experience
using taxi services, access, support available, obstacles and some personal background
information, with the following objectives:
1. To find out the customer satisfaction towards the App based-taxi services.
2. To find the level of convenience and comfort with App based -taxi
services.
3. To know their opinion about the tariff system and promptness of service.
PSIT1P1~~~~~ Research in Computing Practical
M. Sc. [Information Technology] SEMESTER ~ I Teacher’s Reference Manual
9
4. To ascertain the customer view towards the driver behaviour and courtesy.
5. To provide inputs to enhance the services to delight the customers.
6. To examine relationship between service quality factors and taxi
passenger satisfaction.
7. To suggest better regulations for transportation authorities regarding
customer protection and effective monitoring of taxi services.
Case 3:
A popular electronic store want to conduct a survey to develop awareness of branded
laptop baseline estimates and determine popularity of different company’s laptop. It
suggests steps to be initiated or strengthened in the field of demand in a region. The key
indicators are among the general population, demand branded laptop and the problem
users.
The objectives of this particular study are:-
1. To know the preferences of different types of branded laptops by students and
professionals.
2. To study which factor influence for choosing different types of branded
laptops.
3. To know about the level of satisfaction towards different types of branded
laptops.
4. To identify the perception of consumers towards the laptop positioning
strategy.
5. To know the consumer preference towards laptop in the present era.
Use the collected data for analysis.
PSIT1P1~~~~~ Research in Computing Practical
M. Sc. [Information Technology] SEMESTER ~ I Teacher’s Reference Manual
10
B. Perform analysis of given secondary data.
Steps in Secondary Data Analysis
1. Determine your research question – Knowing exactly what you are looking for.
2. Locating data– Knowing what is out there and whether you can gain access to it.
A quick Internet search, possibly with the help of a librarian, will reveal a wealth
of options.
3. Evaluating relevance of the data – Considering things like the data’s original
purpose, when it was collected, population, sampling strategy/sample, data
collection protocols, operationalization of concepts, questions asked, and
form/shape of the data.
4. Assessing credibility of the data – Establishing the credentials of the original
researchers, searching for full explication of methods including any problems
encountered, determining how consistent the data is with data from other sources,
and discovering whether the data has been used in any credible published research.
5. Analysis – This will generally involve a range of statistical processes.
Example: Analyze the given Population Census Data for Planning and Decision
Making by using the size and composition of populations.
PSIT1P1~~~~~ Research in Computing Practical
M. Sc. [Information Technology] SEMESTER ~ I Teacher’s Reference Manual
11
Put the cursor in cell B22 and click on the AutoSum and then click Enter. This will
calculate the total population. Then copy the formula in cell D22 across the row 22.
To calculate the percent of males in cell E4, enter the formula =-1*100*B4/$D$22 .
And copy the formula in cell E4 down to cell E21.
To calculate the percent of females in cell F4, enter the formula =100*C4/$D$22.
Copy the formula in cell F4 down to cell F21.
To build the population pyramid, we need to choose a horizontal bar chart with two
series of data (% male and % female) and the age labels in column A as the Category
X-axis labels. Highlight the range A3:A21, hold down the CTRL key and highlight the
range E3:F21 
PSIT1P1~~~~~ Research in Computing Practical
M. Sc. [Information Technology] SEMESTER ~ I Teacher’s Reference Manual
12
Under inset tab, under horizontal bar charts select clustered bar chart
Put the tip of your mouse arrow on the Y-axis (vertical axis) so it says “Category
Axis”, right click and chose Format Axis
Choose Axis options tab and set the major and minor tick mark type to None, Axis
labels to Low, and click OK.
Click on any of the bars in your pyramid, click right and select “format data series”.
Set the Overlap to 100 and Gap Width to 0. Click OK. 